




 Hu Fu 




Email:  hufu at cs dot ubc dot ca









 About Me

	I am an assistant professor in the 
	Department of Computer Science  at the 
	 University of British Columbia .  
	

	I received my PhD in 2013 from the
Department of Computer Science  at 
Cornell University, under the supervision of Professor
 Robert Kleinberg .  After that, I was a postdoc at  Microsoft Research, New England Lab, and later at  Caltech, Computing and Mathematical Sciences .  


My research takes a computational perspecitve on problems arising from economic contexts, such as auctions and pricing.  I am also interested in theoretical computer science in general.


I am the editor-in-chief of the SIGecom exchanges.  Suggestions and letter submissions are highly welcomed.  




	Teaching 


In Spring 2016 I taught a reading seminar on Platforms and Internet Marketplaces at Caltech.


In Fall 2016 I taught  CPSC 536F Algorithmic Game Theory  at UBC.


In Fall 2017 I taught  CPSC 536F Computational Perspectives on Economic Questions .


I am teaching  CPSC 420 Advanced Algorithm Design and Analysis.





















	Publications 


 The Value of Information Concealment 

	Hu Fu, Chris Liaw, Pinyan Lu and Zhihao Gavin Tang
	
	To appear at SODA'18.
	

  The Efficiency of Open Access in Platforms for Networked Cournot Markets

	John Pang, Hu Fu, Won Lee and Adam Wierman
	
	InfoComm '17
	

  Job Security, Stability and Production Efficiency

	Hu Fu, Robert Kleinberg, Ron Lavi and Rann Smorodinsky
	
 Theoretical Economics  12:1 (2017), 1-24.
	

  Randomization Beats Second-Price as a Prior-Independent Auction

	Hu Fu, Nicole Immorlica, Brendan Lucier and Philipp Strack
	
	EC '15.
	

  On the Complexity of Computing an Equilibrium in Combinatorial Auctions 

	Shahar Dobzinski, Hu Fu and Robert Kleinberg
	
	SODA '15.
	

  Improved Lower Bounds for Testing Triangle-Freeness in Boolean Functions via Fast Matrix Multiplication 

	Hu Fu and Robert Kleinberg.
	
	RANDOM '14.
	

  Approximate Revenue Maximization in Interdependent Value Settings 

	Shuchi Chawla, Hu Fu and Anna Karlin
	
	EC '14.
	

  Optimal Auctions for Correlated Buyers with Sampling 

	Hu Fu, Nima Haghpanah, Jason Hartline and Robert Kleinberg
	
	EC '14.
	

  The Simple Economics of Approximately Optimal Auctions 

	Saeed Alaei, Hu Fu, Nima Haghpanah and Jason Hartline.
	
	FOCS '13.
	

  Prior-Independent Auctions for Risk-Averse Agents 

	Hu Fu, Jason Hartline and Darrell Hoy.
	
	EC '13.
	

  Cost-Recovering Bayesian Algorithmic Mechanism Design 

	Hu Fu, Brendan Lucier, Balu Sivan and Vasilis Syrgkanis.
	
	EC '13.
	

  Simultaneous Auctions Are (Almost) Efficient 

	Michal Feldman, Hu Fu, Nick Gravin and Brendan Lucier.
	
	STOC '13.
	
	Journal version accepted to  Games and Economic Behavior .
	

  Ad Auctions with Data 
 
	Hu Fu, Patrick Jordan, Mohammad Mahdian, Uri Nadav, Ihbal Talgam-Cohen, and Sergei Vassilvitskii.  
	
	SAGT '12.  Preliminary versions presented at NetEcon'12 and Ad Auctions Workshop '12.
	

  Bayesian Optimal Auctions via Multi- to Single-agent Reduction  Saeed Alaei, Hu Fu, Nima Haghpanah, Jason Hartline, Azarakhsh Malekian.  
	
	EC '12.
	

  Conditional Equilibrium Outcomes via Ascending Price Processes with Applications to Combinatorial Auctions with Item Bidding  Hu Fu, Robert Kleinberg and Ron Lavi. 
	
	EC '12.
	

  Sketching Valuation Functions  
	Ashwinkumar Badanidiyuru, Shahar Dobzinski, Hu Fu, Robert Kleinberg, Noam Nisan, and Tim Roughgarden.  
	
	SODA '12.
	

  Optimal Auctions with Correlated Bidders are Easy 
	Shahar Dobzinski, Hu Fu, and Robert Kleinberg.  
	
	STOC '11.
	
	Journal version appeared as Approximately Optimal Auctions for Correlated Bidders  in  Games and Economic Behavior, 2013 .
	

  Inapproximability for VCG-Based Combinatorial Auctions  
	Dave Buchfuhrer, Shaddin Dughmi, Hu Fu, Robert Kleinberg, Elchanan Mossel, Christos Papadimitriou, Michael Schapira, Yaron Singer, and Chris Umans. 
	
	SODA '10.
 Amplified Hardness of Approximation for VCG-Based Mechanisms 
	Shaddin Dughmi, Hu Fu, and Robert Kleinberg. 
	
	Merged with two closely related papers into Inapproximability for VCG-Based Combinatorial Auctions above. 
	
  Truthfulness via Proxies 
 
	Shahar Dobzinski, Hu Fu and Robert Kleinberg.
	



