




Eugene Fiume -- or a convincing impostor



	  Eugene Fiume
	  Department of Computer Science
	  University of Toronto
	  Toronto, Ontario
	  M5S 2E4 
	  CANADA 
	  eh! 

 


 


  elf at dgp dot toronto dot edu 
 (+1) 416 978-5472 
 (+1) 416 946-5464
  
 


  Interests  
  Brief biography (boring) 
  My doctoral family tree (cute) 
  Publications (yawn) 
  Courses 
  Graduate student supervision 
  Some photos, cycling, hiking, ...

 


  OK.  Let's see.  There are a few things you may want to know about me.
First, I am now Dean of the
   Faculty of Applied Sciences at
   Simon Fraser University.
  It is a great place to be.
  I remain a professor (emeritus--even if I think I am too young to use that term) at  University of Toronto, in the
   Department of Computer Science,
  though I'm only around a few days a month.
   I help to run  dgp,
   the Dynamic Graphics Project.
   All of these places are terrific. 
I am way way way Past Chair of the Department (1998-2004).
  I would like to announce that I have graduated from chair to stool.




 Gord Kurtenbach
of Autodesk and I won an

NSERC Synergy Award in February 2012.
We even let the 
Governor General of Canada, David Johnston pose with us.
And then the Canadian Human Computer Communications Society had the questionable sense of awarding
me an

achievement award in June 2014.
And then again Eurographics decided to elect me as

fellow in July 2014.
I've been elected as a

Fellow of the Royal Society of Canada in September 2014.
Someone in 2014 truly has mistaken me for a convincing impostor.



  I am the inaugural Director of the professional master's programme
  in the Department of Computer Science called the
  
  "M.Sc. in Applied Computing (MScAC)".
  You should check it out if you would like a rigorous, research-internship alternative to our
  regular thesis M.Sc., or if you represent a company searching for terrific graduate student interns.
  
I am also Past Chair of the  SIGGRAPH Awards Committee (2004-2008),
  and participatied in and chaired the 
   ACM Paris Kanellakis Award selection committee (2009-2012).
I co-chaired
 Symposium for Computer Animation 2008 with Jerry Tessendorf,
and co-chaired
 Pacific Graphics 2011 
with Ming Ouhyoung, who did all the work.

Lastly, a long time ago I had a blast as Papers Chair of  SIGGRAPH 2001.
Paul Debevec created an excellent
 composite image
of the papers committee.
The papers session included a dedication of the proceedings to my friend, mentor and former supervisor,
 Alain Fournier.
How I still miss his awkward charm and brilliance.
You might be interested in an
   almost surreal picture taken by Paul during the dedication.
And if for some crazy reason you really want to know more about me,
     you can go to  my brief biography.
 


Site Content Last modified: 14 January 2017 by Eugene Fiume  
Web Design by Webertise


 
