



 
 

 

 
 

 




 


Research


Publications


Art+Animation


Teaching


Students


Industry


Rambles


 


Karan Singh

Professor
 

email:karan[at]dgp.toronto.edu

voice: (416) 978-7201

fax: (416) 978-4765

office: Room BA5258, 
    Bahen Center

lab: 
Dynamic Graphics 
    Project
 

postal mailing address:

Karan Singh, Computer Science,

Univ. 
    of Toronto, 40 St. George Street,

Toronto, Ontario, Canada M5S 
    2E4.
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
...my research interests are in interactive graphics, spanning art and visual  perception, geometric and anatomic modeling, facial and character animation, sketch-based  techniques and interfaces for mobile/AR/VR. 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 


 
Research Themes
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 


 

Sketch and Sculpt Interfaces
Often called “natural” approaches to interactive design, there are a number of inherent  limitations in human motor control, drawing and sculpting  skill,  perceptual bias, and  ambiguities of inference,  that make these interfaces for visual communication challenging to design. Over the past decade our research has produced a number of groundbreaking  systems ilovesketch, meshmixer, crossshade, true2form, and neobarok.
 
 
 


 


Mathematical Surface Representations for Conceptual Design
From 2003-2012 (the duration of the MITACS NCE), I led a project on the mathematics of shape representation that produced over 100 publications.
 
 
 


 


Interactive Character 
      Animation (INCA)
The art of character setup leaves an animator unencumbered, like a puppeteer, free to focus on the formidable task of bringing a character to life. I designed and developed character and facial animation tools for Maya 1.0, and have since been fascinated by what lies beneath the surface. I often work in this area with long time collaborator and friend Chris Landreth, and am also part of the Parametric Human Project. My focus is on the most expressive parts of our anatomy: face and hands.
 
 
 


 


Artistic 
      Projection and Rendering
My interest in this area is to use non-photo realism as a tool for self-expression, arguably the purpose of all art, but in my work as a visual manifestation of Nin's observation "we dont see things as they are, we see them as we are".
 
 
 


 


Transcendent Reality
In 1994 I was fortunate to work on the first  virtual space tele-conferencing system (left) at ATR. My interests in AR/VR today go beyond an augmented world, to one where reality is subtracted, abstracted and transformed, or more generally  transcended. JanusVR is a step in that direction.
 
 
 

 
 
      

 
 
 
      
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Copyright © 2006 Karan Singh, All 
      Rights Reserved.  
 
 
 


visitors. 

