



 



photo by Louis Fabian Bachrach
Ronald M. Baecker 
Professor of Computer Science Director of the Technologies for Aging Gracefully Lab Bell Chair in Human-Computer Interaction, University of Toronto 

Biography
Publications
Research Team
Research Sponsors
Contact Information

Download CV (PDF)





Biography
Ronald Baecker is Director of the Technologies for Aging Gracefully Laboratory (TAGlab), Professor of 
      Computer Science, and Bell Universities Laboratories Chair in Human-Computer 
      Interaction.
The focus of TAGlab activities is R&D in support of aging throughout the life course including cognition, communication, and social interaction. Collaborators include individuals from Baycrest, Columbia Medical School, Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, and Toronto Rehabilitation Institute.
He is also Affiliate Scientist with the Kunin-Lunenfeld Applied 
        Research Unit of Baycrest (formerly, Baycrest Centre for Geriatric Care), Adjunct Scientist with Toronto Rehabilitation Institute,  and founder  of the  Knowledge Media Design Institute at the University of Toronto. He has been named one of the 60 
      Pioneers of Computer Graphics by ACM SIGGRAPH, has been elected to the CHI Academy by ACM SIGCHI, 
      and has been given the Canadian Human 
        Computer Communications Society Achievement Award in May 2005. His B.Sc., M.Sc., and 
      Ph.D. are from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Professor Baecker is an active researcher, lecturer, and consultant on 
      human-computer interaction and user interface design, user support, software 
      visualization, multimedia, computer-supported cooperative work and learning, the 
      Internet, entrepreneurship and strategic planning in the software industry, and 
      the role of information technology in business. He has published over 175 papers and
      articles on topics in these areas. He is also the author or co-author of two
      published videotapes and of four books: 


"Reading in Human-Computer Interaction: A Multidisciplinary Approach", 
"Human Factors in Typography for More Readable Programs", 
"Readings in Groupware and Computer-Supported Cooperative Work: Facilitating Human-Human Collabortation", and 
"Reading in Human-Computer Interaction: Towards the Year 2000". 

He is the co-holder of 2 patents. Professor Baecker was the founder, CEO, and Chairman of HCR Corporation, a
      Toronto-based UNIX contract R&D and technology development and marketing
      firm, sold in 1990 to a U.S. competitor.  He was also the founder of Expresto Software Corp, a firm specializing
      in structured visual communication explaining software and other complex
      technology. Expresto Software was sold in 2002 to Caseware International.  
      Another entrepreneurial venture was a virtual non-profit foundation within the University of Toronto to distribute and support the open source ePresence Interactive Media rich media webcasting and archiving system, which then led to the formation of a start-up delivering ePresence products, services, and solutions, recently sold to Desire2Learn. Most recently, he was instrumental in the founding of MyVoice.

Research Team
Current Graduate Students:

Jessica David, Ph.D.
Carrie Demmans Epp, Ph.D.
Pif Edwards, Ph.D.
Mike Massimi, Ph.D.
Matt Medland, M.A.Sc. Candidate
Velian Pandeliev, M.Sc.
Golnoosh Poorshahid, M.Sc.

Research Staff:

Alison Benjamin, Research Associate, TAGlab
Rachelle Campigotto, Research Associate, TAGlab
Garry Ing, Research Associate, TAGlab
Liam Kaufman, Research Associate, TAGlab
Deborah Ptak, Research Associate, TAGlab

Collaborators: 

  Sandra Black, Ph.D.; Director, Neurosciences Research Program, Sunnybrook Research Institute
Jeremy Birnholtz, Pd. D; Assistant Professor, Cornell University
  Adam M. Brickman, Ph.D.; Postdoctoral Fellow, Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's 
       Disease and the Aging Brain, Columbia University
Martha Ladly, Lead Researcher, Mobile Experience Lab; Associate Professor, Experience Design, Ontario College of Art and Design (OCAD)
 Elsa 
         Marziali, Ph.D.; Professor, Faculty of Social Work and Medicine 
         (Psychiatry); Director, Katz Centre; Norman and Honey Schipper Chair in Gerontological 
       Social Work; University of Toronto
 Brian 
         Richards, Ph.D.; Psychologist, Behavioural Neurology Program; 
         Coordinator, Memory Link Program; Baycrest 
       Centre
  Elizabeth Rochon, Ph.D.; Associate Professor, Graduate Department of Speech-Language Pathology, University of Toronto
Joshua Steinerman, M.D.; Postdoctoral Clinical Fellow, Department of Neurology, Columbia   University Medical Centre; Founding Scientist, ProGevity Neuroscience.
  Yaakov Stern, Ph.D.; Professor of Clinical Neuropsychology, Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's 
       Disease and the Aging Brain, Columbia University
Gary Turner, MD; Stroke Rehabilitation Scientist, Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre
Greg Van Alstyne, Director of Research, Strategic Innovation Lab (sLab); Associate Professor, Ontario College of Art and Design (OCAD)

Recent  Theses:

Velian Pandeliev, M.Sc.: A Portal for the Online Evaluation of Serious Games, July 2011
Xavier Snelgrove, B.A.Sc.: Design and Evaluation of an Accessible System for the Collaborative Reading of Digital Books, May 2011
Liam Kaufman, B.Sc.: OYSTER: Organize Your Studies Efficiently and Rapidly, May 2011
Nick Shim, M.Sc.: A Study of Social Interaction in Online Games for Seniors, September 2010
Michael Wu, 
      Ph.D.: Memory Aids as Collaboration Technology, June 2010
Miller Peterson, M.Sc.: A Study of Media for LEctures Recordings, December 2009
Cosmin Munteanu, Ph.D.: Useful Transcriptions of Webcast Lectures, March 2009(co-supervisor)
Kent Fenwick, Pd.D.: Design of a Context-aware Name Reminder System, September 2009
Mike Massimi, M.Sc.: 
        Participatory Design of Mobile Phone Software for Seniors, January 2007
 Tira Cohene, M.Sc.: The Design of Interactive Life Story Multimedia for an Individual and 
Family Affected by Alzheimer’s Disease, April 2005
 David Fono, M.Sc.: 
      Structuring and Supporting Persistent Chat Conversation, October 2006
Jonathan Hoss, 
B.A.Sc.: Open Source Technology Transfer Strategies: An Analysis of Open Source 
Business Models Used to Incubate and Commercialize University Software Projects,  
April 2005
 Joanna McGrenere, 
Ph.D.: The Design and Evaluation of Multiple Interfaces: A Solution for 
Complex Software, February 2002 (co-supervisor)
Meredith 
Noble, B.A.Sc.: Needs Analysis and Preliminary Prototyping for a Context-aware 
Name Recollection Tool, April 2005
 Russ Shick, 
M.Sc.: A Study of Student Conversation in Text and Audio During Webcast Lectures, 
July 2005
Krista 
Strickland, M.Sc.: A Study of Multimedia Lecture Archives for Mobile and Desktop 
Computers, January 2005
Maryam Tohidi, 
        M.Sc.: The Role of Multiple Prototypes in Usability Testing and Inspection 
        (co-supervisor), January 2006
Michael Wu, M.Sc.: The 
      Participatory Design of an Orientation Aid for People with Amnesia, July 2004. 


Research Sponsors

NSERC
 Alzheimer's Association
Google Research
 Microsoft Research (MSR)
The Connaught Fund, University of Toronto
GRAND Network Centre of Excellence (GRAND NCE)


Contact
Technologies for Aging Gracefully Lab
  Department of Computer Science
      Bahen Centre for Information Technology

      40 St. George St., Room 7228
      Toronto, Ontario
    M5S 2E4

    Email: ron@taglab.ca
Tel: 416-978-6983

Fax: 416-946-7132
    

- back to top - 






September 2011

 





